[THEME MUSIC]
>>DAVID WILCOCK:
I'm David Wilcock,
and welcome to "Disclosure."
I am very pleased
to bring you one
of the real heroes of
the ancient civilizations
field of scholarship, none
other than Robert Bauval.
I was very happy to
have the opportunity
to interview him and get
a chance to talk to him
one on one for the purposes
of your edutainment.
That's right, education
and entertainment.
"Disclosure" can be
fun, and Robert Bauval
is the founding father of the
Orion correlation theory, which
says that the three
pyramids in Egypt
actually mirror the positions
and the magnitudes of the three
stars in the belt of Orion.
Now, skeptics have
tried to tear apart
Bauval's Orion correlation
theory, and we talk about that.
But more importantly, we also
talk about the Edgar Cayce
readings which
predicted that there
was going to be a room found
under the paws of the Sphinx
that would be the so-called Hall
of Records, that would contain
actual artifacts from Atlantean
times, which the Cayce
reading said was
when this was built.
And in the Cayce readings,
they gave a window
of 10,450 to 10,350 BC, of
when the monuments at Giza
were constructed.
And what you're
going to find out
is that Bauval's Orion
correlation theory triangulated
almost exactly the
same time frame
for when the alignment
that but these pyramids
were built to encode
actually took place.
His data is 10,500.
It's only for 50
years off from what
was given in the
Edgar Cayce readings.
And don't forget, Edward
Cayce was documented
as having performed
14,000 medical readings,
where all he had
was someone's name
and the time of
when they were going
to have that reading, that
they would agree to be at home.
He had no other information.
And yet in a deep
state of trance,
he would diagnose their
medical conditions
and prescribe a working
treatment for them.
Bauval has some really
fascinating information,
and I want you to
check this out.
Because this is a
very important part
of "Disclosure," an actual
fixation of a particular time
written into stone
at the Giza Plateau.
So check it out.
Robert Bauval.
Welcome to "Disclosure."
I'm really happy to
have you on the show.
>>ROBERT BAUVAL:
It's a pleasure.
>>DAVID: I got your book,
"The Orion Mystery," in 1994,
right when it came out.
I had been reading--
probably, by that point,
I think I had already read 200
books on ancient civilizations.
>>BAUVAL: Wow.
>>DAVID: At one
point-- I've lost it,
but I had a whole list of
all the books I've actually
read as a bibliography.
And you come on the
scene, and the year
after was "Fingerprints of
the Gods" by Graham Hancock.
We got Robert Shoch coming
out, and John Anthony West,
showing that the
Sphinx has apparently
been weathered by
water, and there's
these weird erosion
patterns on it.
But your book really
was a game-changer
for me personally,
and for the world.
Because I said, here's
a guy who's actually
made a breakthrough in a field
where it seems like everything
that everybody's talking about
is hundreds of years old.
Nothing's really
changed that much.
You come out with the
Orion correlation theory.
>>BAUVAL: The Orion correlation
theory-- in fact, the story
begins a long time before.
I don't want to go
through all that.
But it's been a
long process leading
to the publication
of the book in '94.
It started in '83.
And it's one of those
things that's-- you know,
the pyramids have been there
since at least 4,500 years,
it not more.
And hundreds and
hundreds of researchers
through the ages and
modern times, of course,
have explored them,
have studied them.
It's one of those things that
for some reason that I think
I'll take to the grave,
never to understand,
is why nobody asked
an obvious question.
You've got two large-- there's
three major pyramids, three
royal pyramids, that are
located, if one accepts
the orthodox view, to
King Kheops, Khufu,
who built the Great Pyramid,
his brother or son, Khafre,
who built the second pyramid,
almost of equal size.
And then a third pyramid, built
by Menkaure, the grandson,
which is much smaller-- although
it's not a small pyramid.
It's a 65-meter-high pyramid,
but compared to the others--
so the third, small pyramid.
Now, the weird thing is that
the two largest are clearly
on a diagonal.
You can pass a line
through their apex,
and they're at a diagonal--
on a straight line,
but a diagonal to the meridian.
They are about 43,
almost 45 degrees.
It looks like a plan.
I mean, it wouldn't
take a rocket engineer,
and most architects see,
very quickly, a plan.
But nobody had asked
the question, well,
in that case, why is this third
one offset from that alignment?
We have two pyramids on a line,
and then the third one offset.
It's one of those things
that-- and I myself never asked
the question until,
for some reason,
I was visiting the museum in
Cairo, on my way to Alexandria.
I used to live in Alexandria.
And I saw an overhead picture.
Now in those days-- I
mean, we're talking, like,
1982, long before
the Google Earth,
and satellite pictures
were not readily
available-- it was the first
time I'd seen an overhead shot.
Very nice overhead
shot, taken in the 1950s
by the Egyptian air force.
And it struck in my mind.
I mean, why is this offset?
Why is it smaller?
To cut a long story short, I
mean, I got into, like you,
and I started looking at books.
And at the time, I was working
as an engineer in Saudi Arabia.
And I discovered
two things which
anybody who gets into
pyramid research will know.
First, that the pyramids
are well-known to have
been set in such a way
that the sides face
the cardinal directions.
So there was an astronomical
quality about them.
That there were shafts within
the Great Pyramid, one of which
pointed to Orion's belt.
This was known since the 1960s.
And thirdly, that
the pyramid texts,
not of the Fourth Dynasty,
of these three pyramids,
but of the dynasty
that followed,
the Fifth Dynasty, the pyramids
Saqqara, which is about 5,
6 kilometers south of the Giza
pyramids, a lot of these texts,
known as pyramid texts.
And the main theme is the king
becomes a star after his death
and travels to a
kingdom in the sky.
They called it Uat,
which is that region
of the constellation of Orion.
So all this was known.
And so the obvious
thing for me to say
was that it was something
to do with Orion.
Although it did take
quite a few months,
strange enough, until
I was in the desert
with a friend of mine,
happened to be a navigator.
And you know, it's one
of those strange things.
I mean, I know, since I've
written the book, that's
there are people
who look at Orion.
But in those days, I mean,
people didn't sort of
go out and look at
constellations, you know?
And we're there in the
desert, a very clear night,
and he said, Orion, so I said,
yeah, yeah, I've read about it.
And I explained that the
pharaohs wanted to go there.
And he pointed at
Orion at said, look,
there's the three
stars of Orion's belt.
And he said that in
they're in a row,
and if you project
a line through them
and you go down
towards your eyes,
you see the star Sirius rising.
And then, just as an
afterthought, he said,
well, you see the
little one on the top?
It's not exactly in the line.
It's a little bit
offset to the left.
And the proverbial penny
dropped in my mind.
I mean, I literally saw
three pyramids in the sky.
I thought it was
weird, you know?
So I rushed back home,
and I took a map,
you know, and I
got very excited.
And what's amazing
about this is not
only that you've got this
correlation-- you know,
three stars two bright
ones, the third one offset,
looking like the
pyramids on the ground.
With all these connections--
the shaft pointing to the stars,
the pyramids texts inviting
us to look at the stars.
But the stars themselves are
at a rough 45-degree angle
to the Milky Way.
So you have a kind
of line in the sky,
with those three
stars, and a map
on the ground that
looks the same.
You have a sort of "as
above, as below" correlation.
So I thought, surely
somebody's seen this, you know?
>>DAVID: So the
Milky Way in the sky
is in the same position
as the Nile River?
>>BAUVAL: Yeah,
what's intriguing
is that pyramids
texts actually talk
about this "Nile in the sky."
And it's as if there
is an Egypt in the sky.
The ancient Egyptians
fervently believed
that there was a counterpart
of Egypt in the sky,
with the Nile, and
more, which corresponded
to what they had on the ground.
In other words,
that Paradise was
an Egyptian celestial
world, in fact.
>>DAVID: And that's the Duat.
>>BAUVAL: That's the Duat.
Anyway, so I wrote to
several Egyptologists,
and I struck a cord.
I mean, a struck the jackpot.
Because the
authority at the time
was Sir Ivan Edwards, ex-curator
of the British Museum,
who wrote to me and said,
this is very interesting.
I've never heard of this.
Come and see me.
>>DAVID: Well, now hang
on one second, too.
Because part of it is that
the two brighter stars
in Orion's belt are more white.
Remember this, in your
book, that the smaller one
is more red?
And--
>>BAUVAL: What you have
with a visual eye-- I mean,
we are assuming that they didn't
have telescopes and so forth.
But you can see these
things with the naked eye.
And what you see
is two bright stars
in the center of the
Orion constellation.
The Orion constellation
is roughly a rectangle,
four bright stars
forming a rectangle.
And in the middle of this
rectangle is Orion's belt.
I think at this
time of year, you
see it up about 4 or 5
o'clock in the morning.
Very, very bright
constellations.
You can't miss it, once
you know where it is.
And the belt is formed
with two bright stars
of almost equal magnitude.
They shine brightly.
And then a third
one, much dimmer,
and offset from the alignment.
Exactly what you
see on the ground--
two pyramids of equal
size, or almost equal size,
with a third one offset.
Now with all this
backing evidence--
you know, the king
wants to go there.
There's a shaft
pointing there-- it
looks unlikely to
be a coincidence.
There's more to this, by the
way, which links the Sphinx.
However, the story
began when I was invited
to Sir Ivan Edwards' house, and
he said, you've got to publish.
And it took a while,
but eventually
I published in "The
Oxford Journal."
It kind of was not--
the academic world
was not so excited about it.
They felt it was
some strange idea.
But eventually, I
published a book in '94
and it hit the
scene, as you know.
And so the book's
now in 40 languages.
BBC picked it up, and bang, it
went viral, like we say today.
And what followed
was-- by that time,
of course, because of
the attention I got,
I got contacted by Graham
Hancock, who was, at the time,
writing "Fingerprints."
And he was very
keen to incorporate
these new ideas in his book.
And we talked about
writing a book together,
because I had something
up my sleeve which
I did not put in the book.
I was very reluctant,
because I had already
talked a lot about this
correlation to Egyptologists,
and I knew the--
I didn't predict
the impact it would have.
And it kind of spooked me.
I mean, I had the
whole academic world
challenging me, or
inviting me to give talks.
However, what I had up my
sleeve was that the correlation
worked better if you brought--
if you precessed the stars.
There's a planetary
motion that the Earth
wobbles in its cycle
of 26,000 years,
and gives the apparent effect
that the stars change position.
In fact, we're moving, but
the stars appear to move.
>>DAVID: Right, so it's
one degree every 72 years--
>>BAUVAL: Approximately, yes.
>>DAVID: At the equinox.
>>BAUVAL: But if you
watch the meridian, what
happens-- if you watch south,
due south, particularly south,
they rise, they
reach a low point,
and then they reach a high point
in a cycle of 26,000 years.
13,000 years up,
13,000 years down.
Now what they do is
they go up and down,
and they change their
angle with the horizon.
And as you brought them
down to the beginning-- now,
the Egyptians speak
of a beginning time.
And they speak of
a beginning time,
that the god Osiris
came down from the stars
and set up civilization.
>>DAVID: Zep Tepi.
>>BAUVAL: That's right.
They called it Zep
Tepi, the First Time.
And they identify Osiris
to the Orion constellation.
So the thing is, could we use
the stars, his counterpart
in the sky, and see if there
is a First Time, this Zep Tepi?
And the obvious thing was to
go to the low point, the nadir
of the cycle, and say, OK, that
could be the beginning, what
they see as the beginning.
And as you precess
the stars down,
you reach a date of 10,500 BC.
And lo and behold,
the angle of the stars
change and lock
precisely in an angle
that fits the pyramids
on the ground.
But-- and here's a
big but-- while they
do this, at the precise
time-- so you bring them down,
10,500 BC, and when they reach
the meridian, the south line
in alignment with the pyramids,
this is exactly the time,
like spot-on the
time, when the sun is
rising at the spring equinox.
In other words, that this event
only takes place in 10,500 BC
and exactly when the
stars are in the south.
So I worked with the
computer programs
now that we have-- so let's
see what happens in the south.
Well I knew that the Sphinx,
another monument on the site,
was gazing directly due east.
Due east, where the sun
rises at the spring equinox.
And as I looked there, I saw
the constellation of Leo.
So now what you have is two
sets of constellations--
the Sphinx looking
at his counterpart,
and the pyramids aligning
with an image of themselves
in the sky.
>>DAVID: So the Sphinx is a
lion's body, and Leo, the Lion
constellation, the Sphinx
is looking at the Lion.
>>BAUVAL: So what
you had, if you like,
is a simulacra of a
celestial sky image locking
with what was on the ground at
exactly that date of 10,500 BC.
Now at that time, when I
wrote "The Orion Mystery,"
I thought, no.
It's going to cause--
I mean, I was already
having trouble with
the correlation.
I thought-- well, I told Graham,
listen, what do you think?
Should we do a book?
And we did.
And that really exploded,
because of course, it
pushed the dates of the
pyramid age to 10,500 BC.
And of course-- now what
was odd, at the time,
in parallel with us, was that
John West and Robert Schoch
were coming with some
sort of similar date
by their analysis of the
geology of the Sphinx.
>>DAVID: Well, and
what blew me away,
as soon as I heard about this,
was I'd already read books
on Edgar Cayce and his
view of Atlantis, clearly
saying that the pyramid was
built from 10,450 to 10,350.
>>BAUVAL: Well, let me tell
you, at that time, I mean,
I was one of those very
grounded construction engineers,
and Edgar Cayce was
not in my mind at all.
But of course, the
minute we published
this, people started
to attack me and said,
did you know that Edgar
Cayce had that date?
Now, the weird thing about
this astronomical analysis
is that it pointed,
the whole thing
pointed to the
position of the sun
at the spring
equinox in 10,500 BC,
below the constellation of Leo.
And if the sky map was
reflected on the ground,
then it suggested that
there was something
under the Sphinx
that read 10,500 BC.
So of course, people
contacted me and said, well,
did you know that Cayce
said there was something
under the Sphinx, a Hall
of Records, in 10,500 BC?
Inevitably I was called.
They asked me to go and
give a conference there.
And I'm not-- you
know, I'm still
unclear about whether to
take this as-- I mean,
you know, here we had, finally,
this hard science, astronomy,
curiously coming up with what
a seer had said in the 1930s.
Now whether I liked it
or not, he had said it.
Now, of course, it
kind of puzzled me.
And I got involved a bit in
finding out what was going on.
And this led to
realizing that there
was a genuine hunt for this
Hall of Records at Giza
that had started in the '70s.
As you know, The
Cayce Foundation
had several attempts to
find this Hall of Records,
starting in the '70s all
the way to the late '90s.
So there you are.
That's the whole thing.
And--
>>DAVID: But they've
never been allowed
to do anything that destructive.
All they can do is very
simple, non-destructive tests.
>>BAUVAL: Actually, not quite.
Look, I think a lot of
people don't understand
this about my relationship
with The Cayce Foundation.
I've never met Cayce.
He died in 1945,
before I was born.
I was born in '48, in
case you're interested.
And I think he was a good man.
I mean, I have no
doubt he was genuine.
And for all I know,
he had an intuition
that made him know that
there was something going on
at Giza, at the temple.
However, many years
after his death,
one of his sons,
Hugh Lynn Cayce,
when The Cayce Foundation was
founded in Virginia Beach,
the ARE, the Association for
Research and Enlightenment,
decided that he was going
to do something about this.
He was going to try and
find this Hall of Records.
And the story is that
he recruited a young man
at the time, a fellow
called Mark Lehner,
who's now one of the
top Egyptologists.
Sent him to Egypt to
study at the American
University at Cairo with a very
sort of-- almost naive mission.
Find us a way to look
for the Hall of Records.
Amazingly, Lehner
got very friendly
with the then-chief inspector
of Giza, who became eventually,
a minster, Dr. Zahi Hawass.
And through this liaison,
they had their first attempt
in 1978.
At the time, the Stanford
Research Institute
was doing research with radars
for the University of Cairo.
And Lehner got to know
the director there,
a fellow called Lambert
Dolphin, if I remember well.
And kind of struck
a deal saying, OK,
if you lend us your name and
your equipment, we'll fund it.
The Cayces are ready to fund it.
So they formed a kind
of a joint venture.
And the idea was to use the
radars of the Stanford Research
Institute to locate
or identify cavities
under the Sphinx, especially
where Cayce had said,
somewhere around the
left paw or right paw.
>>DAVID: So this is
ground-penetrating radar,
and it can--
>>BAUVAL: Well, it was very
primitive in those days.
It was the '70s.
But it could detect cavities.
They could be sure whether
it was naturally-occurring.
And the idea was to
drill and find out
if there was something there.
>>DAVID: To drill down in?
>>BAUVAL: Indeed.
And they did.
I mean, they did five drills.
They couldn't
conclusively-- I mean,
it was very disappointing
for Hugh Lynn Cayce.
Because the project
was stopped just
on the 11th hour,
where they thought
they might strike something.
The story goes that they
were hoping to get back,
and Hawass and Lehner, who had
become very, very good friends
at the time, now-- it's been
denied many times by Hawass.
But The Edgar Cayce
Foundation claims
that they had a plan,
a long-term plan.
They wanted to groom Hawass
to become a PhD in Egyptology.
He needed a PhD to advance
within the antiquity.
He denies it.
They claim that they
paid, or arranged
for a scholarship
for him, to study
at University of Pennsylvania.
He did.
He spent seven years there.
And when he returned,
he was immediately
placed as director-general
of the Giza Pyramids.
So there he is,
in 1987, I think--
>>DAVID: Well, and I heard
the same story from the ARE.
I lived in Virginia Beach.
>>BAUVAL: Oh, did you?
>>DAVID: And I passed
Zahi Hawass in my car
on 22nd Street.
>>BAUVAL: Oh, did you?
Well, look, I've written
a whole book about this,
by the way, which has
just been republished.
In any case, leaving
that aside, there
was another attempt to look
for this Hall of Records
when John West and
Robert Schoch wanted
to investigate the
erosion of the Sphinx.
You know the background to this.
John West approached Robert
Schoch at Boston University.
He got interested.
They went on a
preliminary visit and they
were looking for funds,
using the Boston University
as a front.
And Cayce, Cayce Foundation,
offered the funds.
And they went there--
I think it was 1991--
this time with seismographs.
The idea was to send
shockwaves around the Sphinx
and through the Sphinx to
see if there were cavities.
And that produced
the possibility
of a rectangular chamber
under the paws of the Sphinx.
At that time, like I said,
by sheer synchronicity,
I was writing "The
Orion Mystery,"
unknown to me that
they were doing this.
And Rudolph Gantenbrink, the
German robotics engineer,
was exploring the Great
Pyramids, in the shafts.
All this was going
on at the same time,
and we didn't know each other.
>>DAVID: These are
the shafts that
come out of the Queen's
Chamber, pointing toward stars.
>>BAUVAL: Yes.
Inside the Great Pyramid,
there are three chambers,
a subterranean chamber, a
so-called Queen's Chamber
and a superstructure, and
above it, the King's Chamber.
From these chambers shoot shafts
from the north and south wall.
The ones in the
King's Chamber shoot
right through, out
of the pyramid.
The ones in the Queen's Chamber
stopped-- nobody knew where,
but they didn't
pierce the pyramid.
And until 1993, nobody had
bothered to explore them.
There has been attempts
with rods and things,
but nobody had thought
of sending a machine
up there, a robotic machine.
The first man to come
up with this idea
was Rudolph Gantenbrink.
And in March of '93,
while John West and Robert
Schoch were preparing their
presentation for The Geological
Association, and while I was
writing "The Orion Mystery,"
I happened-- it's
a strange story.
I mean, Professor
Edwards was still alive.
He said, listen, I've heard
the Germans are exploring
the pyramid with a
machine, you know?
And it was all hush-hush.
Why don't you go to
Egypt-- I'll give you
a letter of recommendation--
and find out what they're doing?
So of course, with a letter of
recommendation from Sir Ivan
Edwards, I was well-received,
and they introduced
to Rudolph Gantenbrink,
unknown to all of us,
seven days before he
made the discovery.
I got very friendly
with Rudolph.
He was a very generous guy.
He offered to give me data.
I wanted data for
the-- he was going
to measure the angle of
the shafts with lasers.
I needed precise measurement
to measure the alignment
to the stars.
I returned-- I was living
in England at the time.
I returned to England.
And he phoned me on
the 1st of April--
I thought it was
April Fool-- saying,
I found the door
inside the pyramid.
And that's-- hell broke loose.
He asked me to help him
put this in the news.
We broke the news in England.
And then, as you know, it
went viral, in the jargon now.
And so all this was going on.
Coming back to The
Cayce foundation,
nothing happened after '93.
I mean, there was a huge,
huge interest in finding out,
because they did a program
with Charlton Heston,
"The Mysteries of the Sphinx."
It was exposed to
the American public,
around the world,
that there might
be a chamber under the Sphinx.
Of course, huge pressure
on the Egyptian authorities
to allow this, but they
kind of blocked it.
A lot of politics
went shooting about.
But finally, a
couple years later,
in '95, two members of
The Cayce Foundation,
and funders, life
members, a fellow
called-- he's dead, now-- Joseph
Schor, with another one called
Joseph Jahoda-- we just
called them the Two Joes.
Joseph Jahoda had been one
of the funders and directors
of the earlier project.
Schor had funded, I think,
the three projects of West,
or partly funded.
And now they took
it upon themselves
to try and find
this Hall of Records
on behalf of The
Cayce Foundation.
Schor created The
Schor Foundation
with Zahi Hawass for
the five-year license,
in '95, to look for this Hall
of Records clandestinely.
Because of course, the
Egyptian authorities
were not going to
allow this openly.
The official reason
was that they
want to repair
chasms and faults,
and clean up the necropolis.
And they got very, very
close to find something.
At the time, it was
known that there
was a deep shaft
behind the Sphinx.
This shaft had been known
for many, many years.
But is was flooded with water.
The water had been
pumped by Zahi Hawass.
They went down there,
and with their radars,
found, or believed they
detected a tunnel leading
toward the Sphinx.
And strangely enough, leading
to that area where, in '93,
they had detector
a possible chamber.
Unfortunately, everything
was stopped at this stage.
So the story stops there.
And of course, with a lot of
attempts by many to try and get
permits, permits to
explore the pyramid.
But unfortunately,
so far nobody has
managed to convince the
authorities to allow
further exploration.
There you are.
So that's the story of
finding the secret chamber.
I'm convinced.
I don't know about the
chamber under the Sphinx.
Evidence suggests there
is something there.
Now whether it is the Hall
of Records, I don't know.
But the doors inside the pyramid
are very, very promising.
Very, very promising.
I've be on this story
for the last 20 years.
And it's one of those
things that-- it's
a very, very mysterious
sort of construction.
I mean the pyramid itself.
But these shafts
are most bizarre.
I mean, we just
can't figure out why
they would put a
door 60 meters deep
inside the core of the pyramid.
It invites-- suggests
something behind it.
>>DAVID: Right.
>>BAUVAL: But if you wanted
to conceal something,
why would they bring the
shaft into the chamber?
They didn't-- the best thing
would have been not to have
a shaft at all, and build
the chamber within the core
of the pyramid, and nobody
would have known it was there.
Whereas by bringing
the shaft down,
it invites people to say, well,
what's at the end of the shaft?
And yet they didn't
cut it through.
So they had a shaft
coming down, but it
didn't cut through
to the chamber.
For the life of me, I don't
know why they did this.
I mean, it baffles logic.
>>DAVID: And the Egyptian
authorities are not going
to let anybody try to dig
their way in from the outside,
to where those--
>>BAUVAL: Well,
even if they did,
it would be a very
difficult thing to do.
Because there's still about
20 meters to reach that door.
20 meters is about-- well,
in feet, it's about 60 feet.
There's room for several
rooms, if you like.
It would mean dismantling a
large chunk of the pyramid
to reach it.
Not only they wouldn't
allow it, but it
would be one hell
of a job to do this.
>>DAVID: And dangerous.
>>BAUVAL: And dangerous.
>>DAVID: 'Cause you could
collapse everything on it.
>>BAUVAL: Well, it's a risk.
You don't want to play with the
monument by blasting into it.
No, the only way,
really, is we have-- now,
coming back to why
they did this, I mean,
the shaft is 8
inches by 8 inches.
In other words, they knew that
by doing a shaft of that size,
nobody could get through it.
Nobody.
Unless you had the
technology to do it.
And that's the weird one.
It's as if they designed
a system that's would only
be used if the
technology was available.
In other words, to know
what's behind this door,
you need a robotic
machine to go up there.
You need the knowledge
of video, or television,
the knowledge of fiber-optics.
This requires the
technology we have today.
>>DAVID: Yeah.
>>BAUVAL: We have
the technology.
But 20 years before, 30 years
before, we didn't have it.
That's why they
prod it with rods.
So if the reasoning
is correct, whoever
designed this-- it sounds crazy.
But whoever designed
this designed it
so that this could
only be explored
with the technology that
required a robotic machine
and be able to see
there, and therefore
required the technology we
have today-- cameras, videos.
>>DAVID: That's
really fascinating.
>>BAUVAL: So it's kind of weird.
Because you have a
monument that not only has
these weird designs, the
internal structure itself,
the chambers-- you've
been in there yourself.
>>DAVID: Yeah.
>>BAUVAL: Totally inexplicable.
We can't understand why
there is a grand gallery, why
you have to crouch down,
emerge in the King's Chamber,
a totally bare chamber
with an empty coffer.
Why there's a chamber
below-- it's baffling.
It's as if-- it's
as if it requires
a certain advanced
knowledge to figure it out.
>>DAVID: Sure.
>>BAUVAL: And the shaft advance
suggests this very much.
We may be entirely wrong.
It may be just a crazy
idea that they had.
But with the monuments like
this, you just can't dispense.
>>DAVID: That's
a very cool idea.
Well, let's all the time we have
for this particular episode.
>>BAUVAL: Oh, well.
>>DAVID: But I want to
thank you for being here.
>>BAUVAL: It was a pleasure.
>>DAVID: It was a
fascinating conversation.
Thank you, Robert.
>>BAUVAL: Thank you very much.
Thank you.
>>DAVID: If you haven't figured
out why the Hall of Records
is so tasty and so
tempting, bear in mind
that the Cayce readings
said that if we could
get through that tunnel that the
Egyptian authorities won't let
us go through, we would find
technological artifacts that
may have a higher technology
then we possess now,
and that those artifacts
would holographically tell us
the whole history of the
people who colonized our planet
and where they came from.
I have spoken to insiders--
we'll get into this in later
parts of "Disclosure"-- who
actually have seen these
so-called
extraterrestrial iPads.
They basically look
like a piece of glass
and they're holographic.
They have a heads-up display
that pops up out of the glass,
and you can watch these
events take place.
And it actually interfaces
with your consciousness.
So there are some very
great treasures hiding
in that Hall of Records,
waiting to be discovered.
And that's why it is so
tempting, when we're actually
finding out that something
that Edgar Cayce said in trance
actually has been
found on the plateau.
There is a cathedral-sized
rectangular room
under the paws of the Sphinx.
We know it's there, and we found
the shafts leading into it.
But the authorities
won't let us go in.
That's so frustrating.
Coming up next time,
we're going to be
interviewing Andrew Collins.
And we're going to start
out with his discovery
of his own caves that he dug
up through older research.
And it turned out that
they were really there,
and now the Egyptian
authorities have actually
acknowledged that
they were there.
Then Collins and
I are going to get
into a very fascinating
discussion about the Garden
of Eden in the
Bible, and the idea
that this may actually have
been a real place in East
Anatolia, Turkey,
complete with artifacts,
known as Gobekli Tepe.
These 23 to 24 different
Stonehenge-type circles
of stone, buried underground,
that have now been carbon-dated
to 10,000-plus years ago.
That's coming up next
time, here on "Disclosure."
I'm your host, David Wilcock,
and I thank you for watching.
[MUSIC PLAYING]